NOTES ON INSTALLING N3 (Non-parametric Non-uniformity Normalization)

Author (of this document): Bert Vincent (bert@bic.mni.mcgill.ca)

For a description of the purpose and function of N3, please see the
file README in this directory.  This file solely attempts to explain
the installation process for N3.

0. USE GMAKE

You will get better results using GNU 'make' than IRIX 'make'.  If you
have any problems creating the PERL scripts, that is almost certainly
a 'make' issue.

1. PREREQUISITES

This software package requires that the following tools and libraries 
must already be installed on your system:

* MINC and EBTKS:

These libraries are freely available from the McConnell Brain Imaging
Centre.  You can download the latest versions of the sources (and
precompiled binaries for selected platforms) at the following URL:

http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/software/distribution/

* NetCDF 
  
This library was developed by the University Corporation for
Atmospheric Research's UNIDATA project. The latest source distribution
may be downloaded from:

http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/packages/netcdf/
  
A recent copy of the NetCDF source distribution is available also at
the McConnell Brain Imaging Centre's software distribution site.

* PERL 5

This package makes extensive use of PERL (Practical Extraction and
Report Language) scripts.  PERL is now ubiquitous and comes
preinstalled on most UNIX systems, including Apple's OS X.  In some
cases the preinstalled version may not be recent enough to work
properly with this package's scripts.  You can check this by typing
the command:

perl -v

If the result is either the message "perl: Command not found" or a
message telling you the version of PERL starts with any number other
than 5, you may need download a recent release of PERL 5 from
www.cpan.org.

2. TESTED SYSTEMS

This software has been built and tested only on the following systems:

* SGI IRIX 6.5 using either MIPSpro C++ 7.30 or GNU G++ 3.3
* GNU/Linux using GNU G++ 2.3

We are optimistic that the system will build using the GNU compilers
on other UNIX-based systems, but we haven't been able to test this
theory yet.  We welcome feedback and insight from anyone who has
attempted to install this package on other systems.

3. RUNNING CONFIGURE

Once you have installed all of the prerequisite softare packages, the
next step of the installation is running the 'configure' shell script
located in this directory.  If you are not familiar with configure, it
is a shell script which attempts to deduce all of the necessary
parameters for successful compilation and installation of N3 on your
particular system.

Normally you can just run configure with no options:

    ./configure

The script will print a number of messages about the types of things
it is attempting to examine regarding your system. When finished, it
creates several new files in the directory, such as config.h and
Makefile.  These files reflect configure's "best guess" about your
system.

If you are building with the IRIX MIPSpro compiler, you will need to
specify the -LANG:std flag for the C++ compiler.  The easiest way is
as follows

   ./configure CC=cc CXX='CC -LANG:std'

"configure" takes a number of options which are too numerous for me to
explain here.  For a basic idea of the options, run the command:

    ./configure --help

For more detail on configure options, see the file INSTALL.GENERIC in
this directory.

4. COMPILING AND LINKING

Build the programs and scripts by running the command:

make

in the same directory in which you ran configure.

If you encounter any error messages during this phase, there may be an
incompatibility between your system's software tools and the N3 source
files or build process.  Please verify that you have correctly
installed all of the prerequisite packages.  If you continue to
experience problems, please contact the maintainer of this package
(see the file AUTHORS) for assistance.  Be forewarned that the
maintainer is very likely to be as mystified as you are, but he is
sincere and helpful.

5. PUTTING IT ALL IN PLACE

Once you have successfully built the N3 binaries, you need to install
them in appropriate locations on your system.  In some cases you may
need root access to your system in order to install the programs.

To install the package, type the command:

make install

This will attempt to put copies of the binaries, scripts, and data files
required by N3 in all of the appropriate directories.

